Friends here our concept is executing commands on the remote server.
See already we know how to login into your remote server using SSH.
Now, we are using that SSH to execute our commands on the remote server.
But there are two ways to execute your commands on the remote server using SSH.
And these two ways are applicable for me were
both password and password less authentication enrollments.
Let me go with the first way.
So here we have some steps.
Let me go with step-by-step.
The very first step is firstly,
how to login into your remote server.
We know how to login into remote server, simply SSH,
user name or the rate remote server IP or fully qualified domain name.
And after running this command,
if your environment is possible,
less authentication, then directly it will log in into your remote server.
Suppose if your environment is password authentication,
then it will prompt for password.
Let me show you that. Suppose I have two servers to remote servers.
And those two remote servers I saved in this file.
Let me take one of the server and copy.
Now see for my first remote server or how a user called automation.
That's why simply SSH automation user or the rate IP of that.
And if I enter, it is asking yes or no confirmation,
like adding fingerprint to your local server up about your remote server.
Whenever if you try to connect at very first-time, then only you will ask.
But I don't want to display this information without asking confirmation.
I want to make it as by default as yes.
Then for that there is a option with your SSH,
simply search with man SSH.
So here if you observe there are different options just to go down some very hyphen,
Woo, hyphen WE option is there for your SSH.
And in that we have a number of options based on requirement you have to sell it,
you are required option for your SSH.
Now my requirement, I will show you just to go down in last year house somewhere.
Strict hosted heat-seeking option.
I want to take that just to go down,
see that strict host Stuckey checking just to copy it.
Now I will show you how to use that.
So if you run in this way, right?
It is asking SR No,
but I don't want to ask this.
I want to make it as the fault as yes.
That means you don't need to ask the CSR no option.
So for that, you can run simply SSH,
hyphen wall, strict host Stuckey checking equals two.
No means don't ask.
That's it.
Now, if I enter see that without asking yes or no confirmation.
It is asking password.
No, let me let me do the password for my remote server.
Now you login with your remote server.
Now you can run your command here,
any command, and you can see the result.
And in case once if you've done your work,
then you can exit the session.
You can close the session connection by using exit command.
Now you are on a local server, right?
So these are the steps for your first way.
But this is not good for automation.
If you want to implement some shell script such a way that
your shell script has to connect with your remote server,
then this is not the good way,
is only for manual steps.
Whenever, if you want to verify manually,
you can use this procedure.
Now.
Then, what is the other way for your automation?
See that simply the same can nothing is there clubbing all these steps,
SSH, user name or the rate remote server.
Then here at the end,
I am providing in quotations command.
That's it.
Anyway, if your environment is postulates authentication dilated legs,
good, your comment on remote server.
But if it is password authentication,
then it will ask,
it will prompt for password. Let me show you that.
Same steps there is.
I will use this hyphen,
whether you are going to connect at very first time or not always.
I will use from here onwards for your SSH hyphen
war with option as strictly who's teaching equals to know.
Then same syntax, SSH, username,
or they'd host name,
colon space, not colon space.
In quotations, you can write any command, then enter.
Anyway.
As of now, my environment is password authentication environment.
That's why I need to provide a password here.
Automation password.
I have given that password, no,
see that is you are getting output for your command, date command.
And this command has been executed on the server by
using this user that output it is displaying.
Now whenever if you run your command without SSH option,
then your command is running on your local server.
But if you run with SSH by providing user and some host name,
now your command is going to execute on the server and after execution of your command.
But oh, the result you are getting,
that result will be get back to your local server by using your SSH.
That's what it is doing.
But it will ask password.
That's it.
Now instead of displaying these output,
you can store in a variable or into your file.
You know how to store the command output India variable.
Suppose I am taking a variable called server one date.
Just for your understanding, I am taking that Lindsey variable name,
then dollar, parenthesis inside that,
just write your command C that it is asking password,
I'm going to provide the password.
Now, whatever the output you got from this command,
that output is stored in this variable.
Now you can display that variable so that he
can see the value which is there in that variable.
That's a incase if you don't want to store in the variable,
and if you want to store this command output into a file,
you know how to redirect a command output India variable.
Now simply greater than suppose server one, info.plist.
Be clear.
Your command is executing on this server,
but result is storing on your local server.
It should be clear with this,
you are dead command is executing on the remote server, but the result,
whatever you are getting the output for this command that is storing into this file.
But this file will be created on your local server only.
Now let me provide the password.
Now see the result in the server one Info.plist file.
That's it.
I can then some other command as well.
Let's say I want to run up time,
but I want to redirect that output also into my server one, info.plist.
But I don't want to delete old content and I want to keep my old content as DES.
And I want to append the new command output into this file.
That's why I'm using double greater than.
Now, just run it and provide the password.
That's it.
Now see the content which is their newer file.
So previous data output is there,
now present uptime output also there.
Right?
See if you are a neuron mentees possible less authentication,
then you no need to provide password while earning your SHE commands.
But sometimes, you know, for some environments there is
a possible less authentication for some minimal elements there.
In case if you don't help password authentication,
then you have to provide this password.
That's it. Now, let me run one more command.
Suppose I want to run a command called top.
On my remote server.
I want to see load.
I am providing the password for my remote server user.
But it is saying that some environment variable not set c Actually,
you know, whenever you run top command,
it is a thermal interaction outputs either.
It is not ending your session, right?
Whenever if you run top comment on your local server,
you have to press Control-C to close that.
So some commands, you need an interaction with your remote server tunnel.
So in that case,
you have to provide one more option for your SSH That
is called hyphen T. Now see the result.
I am running the command top on my remote server.
Now you are getting output for your remote server.
Anyway, if you want to close it and just press control C,
and that's it so that you are remote session close.
So if you are getting confusion always you can take hyphen T,
whether it is a top comment or date command.
But for dead command unit hyphen T. Yeah,
maybe I'll given Wrong password.
Verify it. See that you are getting your output.
Software, getting your output.
This is automatically closing your terminal.
Iphone Tea thermal is closing off the getting your output.
So these combine output also you can store into any variable.
Without iPhone TR, with hyphen T. You can
run your commands and you can store that output India variable or file.
Let me store into variable.
New output equals $2 parenthesis,
you are command SSH,
command, close the session.
Right now, see the result in new out.
Yes, you are getting your date command output.
So actually while running this command,
your command is executing on,
you're getting your output at the same time,
you are getting some info connection to your IP close,
but this won't store into your output variable or India file.
Be clear, only the command outputting to store a variable or in pdf file.
Alright?
So this is the way how we can execute
a comment on your remote server without logging into heat.
But here the problem is always you need to run,
always you have to provide password.
Suppose I want to run 5X six commands on my remote server.
For each and every command you need to provide a password.
That is somewhat disadvantage here,
but we can work on that.
In our next session,
we will see about that.
Now suppose if you want to run multiple commands are daytime, Yes, we can run it.
There is an option, so simply just separate your commands with
semicolon date, uptime, memory usage.
Now it is asking only password at one time,
but relays good three commands to see the result.
Your date command, uptime, and RAM usage.
So this is the way how we can execute multiple commands,
simply semi-colons, right? Okay.
Okay, yes, thank you for watching this video.